python sol q3 jan 2021 bronze contest (#1151)
cpinitiative/usaco-guide: solutions/USACO jan21-juststalling.mdx

author: Ananth Kashyap
---

[Official Analysis](http://www.usaco.org/current/data/sol_prob3_bronze_jan21.html)

For this problem, we are going to use permutations. First, we can sort the cows in increasing order based on
height. Then we can keep track of the number of stalls that each cow is able to fit in. Now, to get the total
number of possibilities that each cow can use in a permutation, all we have to do is, for each cow, subtract
off the number of other cows that will be using other stalls which this cow is capable of using. To do this, we
can use the fact that only cows with heights greater than or equal to this cow are required to use one of the
stalls that this cow is capable of using. Since we know that our cows are sorted in height increasing order,
the $\texttt{i}$th cow in our list will have $\texttt{n-i}$ cows with heights greater than or equal to it. So to
get our final answer, we can initialize a cumulative product which will contain our answer, and for every
$\texttt{i}$ between 1 and $\texttt{n}$, we just have to multiply this cumulative product by the number of
stalls that the $\texttt{i}$th cow could possibly use, minus $\texttt{(n-i)}$.

## Implementation

> Time Complexity: $\mathcal{O}(N^2)$

Reviewer: Bold 
> Time Complexity:

Author: You mean in LaTeX?

Reviewer 2: Use markdown as shown here: https://usaco.guide/general/contributing?lang=cpp#adding-a-solution

<LanguageSection>

<PySection>

```python

> // Take in the data as an integer (n) and two separate lists (the stalls and the cows) using Python standard input.

Reviewer: arent python comments # ? was this tested :/

Author: Yeah my bad I tested it and it was fine but then I added comments after (i thought nothing could go wrong) but i completely made this mistake. My bad i'll fix it right now.

n = int(input(""))
cows = list(map(int, input("").split(" ")))
stalls = list(map(int, input("").split(" ")))

cows.sort()
stalls.sort()

> possible_places = [0]*n

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
possible_places = [0] * n
```

// Create a list with the ith element of this list containing the number of stalls that the ith cow in our sorted cows list can use.
for i in range(n):
    for j in range(n):
        if cows[i] <= stalls[j]:
            possible_places[i] += 1
// Initialize a cumulative product
product = 1

// Starting from the back, we can multiply our cumultive product by the number of possibilities of stalls that each cow can take in a permutation, based off of the formula provided in the explanation.

> for i in range(n-1, -1, -1):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
for i in range(n - 1, -1, -1):
```

>     product *= (possible_places[i] - (n-i-1))

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    product *= (possible_places[i] - (n - i - 1))
```

source: USACO Bronze 2021 January
title: Just Stalling
author: Ananth Kashyap
---

[Official Analysis](http://www.usaco.org/current/data/sol_prob3_bronze_jan21.html)

For this problem, we are going to use permutations. First, we can sort the cows in increasing order based on
height. Then we can keep track of the number of stalls that each cow is able to fit in. Now, to get the total
number of possibilities that each cow can use in a permutation, all we have to do is, for each cow, subtract
off the number of other cows that will be using other stalls which this cow is capable of using. To do this, we
can use the fact that only cows with heights greater than or equal to this cow are required to use one of the
stalls that this cow is capable of using. Since we know that our cows are sorted in height increasing order,
the $i$th cow in our list will have $n-i$ cows with heights greater than or equal to it. So to
get our final answer, we can initialize a cumulative product which will contain our answer, and for every
$i$ between 1 and $n$, we just have to multiply this cumulative product by the number of
stalls that the $i$th cow could possibly use, minus $n-i$.

## Implementation

> **Time Complexity:** $\mathcal{O}(N^2)$

Reviewer 3: I'm not sure time complexity is important for a bronze solution. You can keep it if you want.

<LanguageSection>

<PySection>

```python

> n = int(input())
> cows = list(map(int, input().split(" ")))
> stalls = list(map(int, input().split(" ")))
> 
> cows.sort()
> stalls.sort()
> 
> possible_places = [0] * n
> 
> # Create a list containing the number of stalls each cow can use.
> for i in range(n):
> 	for j in range(n):
> 		if cows[i] <= stalls[j]:
> 			possible_places[i] += 1
> 			
> # Initialize a cumulative product
> product = 1
> 
> # For each cow, find out the number of stalls it can use in a valid permutation
> # Use the formula provided in the explanation
> # Multiply the cumulative product by this value
> for i in range(n - 1, -1, -1):
> 	product *= (possible_places[i] - (n - i - 1))
> 
> print(product)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    n = int(input())
    cows = list(map(int, input().split(" ")))
    stalls = list(map(int, input().split(" ")))
    
    cows.sort()
    stalls.sort()
    
    possible_places = [0] * n
    
    # Create a list containing the number of stalls each cow can use.
    for i in range(n):
	    for j in range(n):
		    if cows[i] <= stalls[j]:
			    possible_places[i] += 1
			    
    # Initialize a cumulative product
    product = 1
    
    # For each cow, find out the number of stalls it can use in a valid permutation
    # Use the formula provided in the explanation
    # Multiply the cumulative product by this value
    for i in range(n - 1, -1, -1):
	    product *= (possible_places[i] - (n - i - 1))
    
    print(product)
    ```
    n = int(input())
    cows = list(map(int, input().split(" ")))
    stalls = list(map(int, input().split(" ")))
    
    cows.sort()
    stalls.sort()
    
    possible_places = [0] * n
    
    # Create a list containing the number of stalls each cow can use.
    for i in range(n):
	    for j in range(n):
		    if cows[i] <= stalls[j]:
			    possible_places[i] += 1
			    
    # Initialize a cumulative product
    product = 1
    
    # For each cow, find out the number of stalls it can use in a valid permutation
    # Use the formula provided in the explanation
    # Multiply the cumulative product by this value
    for i in range(n - 1, -1, -1):
	    product *= (possible_places[i] - (n - i - 1))
    
    print(product)

off the number of other cows that will be using other stalls which this cow is capable of using. To do this, we
can use the fact that only cows with heights greater than or equal to this cow are required to use one of the
stalls that this cow is capable of using. Since we know that our cows are sorted in height increasing order,
the $i$th cow in our list will have $n-i$ cows with heights greater than or equal to it. So to
get our final answer, we can initialize a cumulative product which will contain our answer, and for every
$i$ between 1 and $n$, we just have to multiply this cumulative product by the number of
stalls that the $i$th cow could possibly use, minus $n-i$.

## Implementation

**Time Complexity:** $\mathcal{O}(N^2)$

<LanguageSection>

<PySection>

```python
n = int(input())
cows = list(map(int, input().split(" ")))
stalls = list(map(int, input().split(" ")))

cows.sort()
stalls.sort()

possible_places = [0] * n

# Create a list containing the number of stalls each cow can use.
for i in range(n):
	for j in range(n):
		if cows[i] <= stalls[j]:
			possible_places[i] += 1
			
# Initialize a cumulative product
product = 1

> # For each cow, find out the number of stalls it can use in a valid permutation
> # Use the formula provided in the explanation
> # Multiply the cumulative product by this value
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# For each cow, find the number of remaining stalls that it can fit into
# Multiply the cumulative product by this value
```
> For each cow, find out the number of stalls it can use in a valid permutation

I'm not really sure how to word this in a way that's more clear... anyone have any ideas?

> Use the formula provided in the explanation

I think you basically explain what the formula does so this line is probably not necessary

I don't know why it doesn't show up in the suggestion, but you should also delete the blank line under to comments to be more consistent with the other comments

---

[Official Analysis](http://www.usaco.org/current/data/sol_prob3_bronze_jan21.html)

For this problem, we are going to use permutations. First, we can sort the cows in increasing order based on
height. Then we can keep track of the number of stalls that each cow is able to fit in. Now, to get the total
number of possibilities that each cow can use in a permutation, all we have to do is, for each cow, subtract
off the number of other cows that will be using other stalls which this cow is capable of using. To do this, we
can use the fact that only cows with heights greater than or equal to this cow are required to use one of the
stalls that this cow is capable of using. Since we know that our cows are sorted in height increasing order,
the $i$th cow in our list will have $n-i$ cows with heights greater than or equal to it. So to
get our final answer, we can initialize a cumulative product which will contain our answer, and for every
$i$ between 1 and $n$, we just have to multiply this cumulative product by the number of
stalls that the $i$th cow could possibly use, minus $n-i$.

## Implementation

**Time Complexity:** $\mathcal{O}(N^2)$

<LanguageSection>

<PySection>

> ```python

Reviewer 2: use tabs instead of spaces to indent

> n = int(input(""))
> cows = list(map(int, input("").split(" ")))
> stalls = list(map(int, input("").split(" ")))
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
delete this - seems like it was from the merge

Reviewer 2: also line 33 (the empty line underneath) - not sure why it doesn't show up in the suggestion

n = int(input())
cows = list(map(int, input().split(" ")))
stalls = list(map(int, input().split(" ")))

cows.sort()
stalls.sort()

possible_places = [0] * n

# Create a list containing the number of stalls each cow can use.
for i in range(n):
    for j in range(n):
        if cows[i] <= stalls[j]:
            possible_places[i] += 1
            
# Initialize a cumulative product
product = 1

> # Multiply our cumultive product by the number of possibilities of stalls that each cow can take

Reviewer 2: this line is too long (also there's a type in cumulative)

---
id: usaco-1085
source: USACO Bronze 2021 January
title: Just Stalling
author: Ananth Kashyap
---

[Official Analysis](http://www.usaco.org/current/data/sol_prob3_bronze_jan21.html)

For this problem, we are going to use permutations. First, we can sort the cows in increasing order based on
height. Then we can keep track of the number of stalls that each cow is able to fit in. Now, to get the total
number of possibilities that each cow can use in a permutation, all we have to do is, for each cow, subtract
off the number of other cows that will be using other stalls which this cow is capable of using. To do this, we
can use the fact that only cows with heights greater than or equal to this cow are required to use one of the

> stalls that this cow is capable of using. Since we know that our cows are sorted in height increasing order,
> the ith cow in our list will have $\texttt{n-i}$ cows with heights greater than or equal to it. So to
> get our final answer, we can initialize a cumulative product which will contain our answer, and for every
> i between 1 and n, we just have to multiply this cumulative product by the number of
> stalls that the ith cow could possibly use, minus $\texttt{(n-i)}$.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
stalls that this cow is capable of using. Since we know that our cows are sorted in height increasing order,
the $i$th cow in our list will have $n-i$ cows with heights greater than or equal to it. So to
get our final answer, we can initialize a cumulative product which will contain our answer, and for every
$i$ between 1 and $n$, we just have to multiply this cumulative product by the number of
stalls that the $i$th cow could possibly use, minus $n-i$.
```
sorry if it wasn't clear; variables should be LaTeXed, but single character variables don't need \texttt

## Implementation

**Time Complexity:** $\mathcal{O}(N^2)$

<LanguageSection>

<PySection>

```python

> <<<<<<< HEAD

Reviewer 2: i think there was a merge conflict or something? try to fix it, making sure to apply the changes we made

---
id: usaco-1085
source: USACO Bronze 2021 January
title: Just Stalling
author: Ananth Kashyap
---

[Official Analysis](http://www.usaco.org/current/data/sol_prob3_bronze_jan21.html)

For this problem, we are going to use permutations. First, we can sort the cows in increasing order based on
height. Then we can keep track of the number of stalls that each cow is able to fit in. Now, to get the total
number of possibilities that each cow can use in a permutation, all we have to do is, for each cow, subtract
off the number of other cows that will be using other stalls which this cow is capable of using. To do this, we
can use the fact that only cows with heights greater than or equal to this cow are required to use one of the
stalls that this cow is capable of using. Since we know that our cows are sorted in height increasing order,
the $i$th cow in our list will have $n-i$ cows with heights greater than or equal to it. So to
get our final answer, we can initialize a cumulative product which will contain our answer, and for every
$i$ between 1 and $n$, we just have to multiply this cumulative product by the number of

> stalls that the $i$th cow could possibly use, minus $n-i$.

Reviewer 3: This solution is really similar to the official solution... You should remove it.
